One year ago, Jehovah told Abraham something that seemed impossible.
His wife Sarah would have a son.
Sarah's miraculous pregnancy and Isaac's birth were proof that Jehovah's word always comes true.
As the rains came down, there they were, eight souls, safe on the ark.
Jehovah protected Noah's family.
That's why we're alive today.
And you know, that's not the only time.
There have been many things that seem scary, but Jehovah always makes sure his promises come true.
Think how he helped to protect your mother when Pharaoh wanted to take her as his wife.
Think how he sent angels to save a lot.
Remember, he caused your birth.
I'm your father.
But Jehovah's your father too.
You were part of his purpose, Isaac.
Hard things are going to happen.
But remember, we can always trust Jehovah.
He always keeps his promises.
That's right.
Remember the promise Jehovah made to our family?
I will give to you.
And to your offspring after you, the land in which you lived is a lasting possession.
And I will be their God.
Come here.
Hard things did happen, even in this spiritual housework.
This wasn't just a sibling rivalry.
Ishmael's abusive behavior had broken Sarah's heart.
I asked that slave girl and her son.
Do not be displeased by what Sarah is saying to you.
About the boy and about your slave girl.
Listen to her.
For what will be called your offspring will be through Isaac.
As for the son of the slave girl, I will also make a nation out of him because he is your offspring.
Though it was hard, Abraham obediently sent Heger and his son Ishmael away.
Trusting that Jehovah had his eyes upon them.
Take, please, your son, your only son whom you so love, Isaac.
And travel to the land of Mariah and offer him up there as a burnt offering on one of the mountains that I will designate to you.
Let's go.
In the past, Abraham had asked God questions about some of his judgments and decisions.
But now, his friendship and trust in Jehovah had grown.
He didn't ask anything at all.
You stay here with the donkey.
The boy and I will go over there and worship and return to you.
Father, yes, my son.
Here is the fire and the wood.
But where is the sheep for the burnt offering?
God himself will provide the sheep for the burnt offering, my son.
Abraham.
There he is.
Do not harm the boy.
Do not do anything at all to him.
For now, I do know that you are God-fearing.
Because you have not withheld your son.
You are only one from me.
And by means of your offspring, all nations of the earth will obtain a blessing for themselves.
Because you have listened to my voice.
Abraham and Sarah and Isaac all knew they could have full faith in Jehovah.
His promises to them are promises to us.